# comp20-hclark
This repository contains work I have done for individual assignments in Comp 20 - Web Programming at Tufts in the Spring Semester of 2015. This includes basic html and css front end, client-side javascript, server-side javascript, and basic security assignments.

## Favorite Assignment
  I my favorite assignment was the security assignment because it required the most thinking. Not only did it require understanding of client side and server side code, but also of how they fit together. It also made me think more analytically about how the many pieces were fitting together and what the effect of how those pieces were made to fit would have on the program as a whole.

## What I've Learned
  This course has helped me grow a tremendous amount. Previously, I had very little experience with web programming aside from the most basic HTML and how to make API requests and had no idea how front end Javascript was used or how web servers are built. I now have an understanding of how all of the basic components fit together, as well as how frameworks can also be used in conjunction with or instead of those components.
  
  I believe the most important concept I have learned is to not reinvent the wheel unless you want fundamentally different wheel. In otherwords, it is better to use an existing package or module that accomplishes something that you are trying to do unless there is a large difference between what it does and what you need or want. For example, it is much easier and quicker to write a server in Node.js than in plain Javascript, and time and effort are valuable commodities. Another example comes in a project unrelated to Comp 20. I needed a view for an iOS app that could scroll through a number of images. I nearly began building one myself, which would have cost a lot of time I could have used fixing bugs in an already implemented part of the app, before thinking to look for an already implemented open source one. Using an existing one saved me the time of writing the large amount of code as well as the time needed to debug it.
  
  I am most interested in looking deeper into the tradeoffs in design decisions for web. For example, in class we used Node.js for our backend. However my group chose to use Flask for our final project because it seemed easier to write and debug as well as having all the features we needed. While it certainly works well enough, I was very curious about other tradeoffs between the two, as well as those in other choices, such as front end frameworks.
